# Frontier EVM squid template 

This is a template squid for indexing EVM contracts deployed to chains with Frontier EVM support (Moonbeam, Moonriver, Shiden, Astar). This template indexes token transfers on the [Moonriver network](https://moonbeam.network/networks/moonriver/) and serves them via GraphQL API.

For more details, consult the [Squid SDK docs](https://docs.subsquid.io/develop-a-squid/)

## Quickstart

```bash
# 1. Update the Squid SDK and install dependencies
npm run update
npm ci

# 2. Compile typescript files
make build

# 3. Start target Postgres database and detach
make up

# 4. Start the processor
make process

# 5. The command above will block the terminal
#    being busy with fetching the chain data, 
#    transforming and storing it in the target database.
#
#    To start the graphql server open the separate terminal
#    and run
make serve
```

## Dev flow

### 1. Define database schema

Start development by defining the schema of the target database via `schema.graphql`.
Schema definition consists of regular graphql type declarations annotated with custom directives.
Full description of `schema.graphql` dialect is available [here](https://docs.subsquid.io/schema-spec).

### 2. Generate TypeORM classes

Mapping developers use TypeORM [EntityManager](https://typeorm.io/#/working-with-entity-manager)
to interact with target database during data processing. All necessary entity classes are
generated by the squid framework from `schema.graphql`. This is done by running `npx sqd codegen`
command.

### 3. Generate database migrations

All database changes are applied through migration files located at `db/migrations`.
`squid-typeorm-migration(1)` tool provides several commands to drive the process.

```bash
## delete all migrations
rm -rf db/migrations/*.js

## drop create the database
make down
make up

## create a new schema migration from the entities
npx squid-typeorm-migration generate      
```

See [docs on schema updates](https://docs.subsquid.io/develop-a-squid/schema-file/schema-updates/) for more details.

### 4. Import ABI contract and generate interfaces to decode events

It is necessary to import the respective ABI definition to decode EVM logs. For Moonsama transfers we use the standard ERC721 interface, see [`assets/ERC721.json`](assets/ERC721.json).

To generate a type-safe facade class to decode EVM logs, use `squid-evm-typegen(1)`:

```bash
npx squid-evm-typegen src/abi assets/ERC721.json#erc721
```

See more details on the [`evm-typegen` doc page](https://docs.subsquid.io/develop-a-squid/typegen/squid-evm-typegen/)

## Project conventions

Squid tools assume a certain project layout.

* All compiled js files must reside in `lib` and all TypeScript sources in `src`.
The layout of `lib` must reflect `src`.
* All TypeORM classes must be exported by `src/model/index.ts` (`lib/model` module).
* Database schema must be defined in `schema.graphql`.
* Database migrations must reside in `db/migrations` and must be plain js files.
* `sqd(1)` and `squid-*(1)` executables consult `.env` file for environment variables.


